We'll come back.
Now it's time to check out signals and slots in huge creator and in the next video we're going to see
how to do it in Python.
So first of all I'm going to get rid of every thing in my central widget.
So I'm just going to select all of them.
Also the spacer.
I'm going to delete all of them.
So now I have an empty and clean UI and in here I'm just going to drag in a push button and a checkbox
right next to it.
So now what I want to do is that if somebody presses this push button that the checkbox is activated
because the signal can come from the push button but the receiver can be the checkbox and I can pretty
much model that very easily.
And how do I do that.
Well let's check it out.
Go to signals and slots here at the bottom.
So at the very bottom there is this tab next to action editor signals and slots.
And here I'm going to press the plus button in order to create a new signal and slot entry.
So in order to do that I can select a sender a signal a receiver and a slot.
And let's check this out.
One by one.
So what I want to do is once somebody's precious There's push button I want to send out a signal and
the signal should be happening when somebody clicks the push button.
So when the clicked method is called then what should happen what should happen is that the checkbox
is going to be the receiver and that should change its slot and we will see what that is so let's check
it out.
Let's go to the sender.
And here I can say OK my push button.
So this one here should be the sender.
Why is it called Push button with a lower cap push or P.
Well that's because if we look at this push button we can check out the object name and we can see that
it's called Push button.
So the name here is what's important and that's what also the sender name that you can find here.
So if I would change to add to my button for example and then I go to sender.
You see it automatically changed so the signals and slots and tree automatically changed to my button.
So that's what this object name is all for.
Then we have the signal.
So what should be the signal that is send out all the signals should be clicked.
So we can see the abstract button has multiple signals.
The key widget has multiple signals and the object has multiple signals.
So the one destroyed for example.
So this object is destroyed.
Then we could send out a signal for example.
But the one that we want to use is click it.
So if somebody clicked on that push button we want the receiver.
And in this case it's going to be our checkbox to change something and it should be the slot toggle.
So it should pretty much say from the abstract button to just toggle It's called the toggle method.
And what that will do is it will pretty much make this checkbox active or inactive.
So let's just check this out.
Let's do that.
And now let's save our main window right white and go back to our pie chart and in there we need to
run our build again so that it takes all of the changes and now we can run the main and you'll see once
we press this push button you can see the checkbox actually activated once again as you can see can
activate and deactivate and that is done by the push button being the sender and the checkbox being
the receiver so now can of course change the slot so before was toggle maybe we want to hide.
So let's say I want to hide the element if somebody presses this push button.
So let me save it again then let me execute my build and now let me execute my main again so that will
open up.
And as you can see once I press the push button it disappears it's just Heights and the problem is I
cannot unhide it anymore because hiding and hiding is not the same thing here.
So that would be for example something that we could do in Python code so you could say OK push button
was pressed hide the checkbox push past and was pressed again.
Unhide the checkbox.
But as you can see it's very limited.
How we can do that in the qued creator.
So as you can see there is only this hide method and if we check out the other ones you can see there
are plenty.
There is also this show method that can be called as well said focus repaint raised lower pretty much
several methods here and that's how you can create signals and slots.
But we will see how to do that in Python in the next video.